word,definition,sentence
abandon,"to leave something or someone behind","The boy had to abandon his toy because it broke."
abode,"a home or place where someone lives","Her abode was a small house near the park."
absence,"not being present or not there","The teacher noticed my absence in class today."
absurd,"something very silly or unreasonable","It is absurd to think you can fly without wings."
abundance,"a lot of something","There was an abundance of food at the party."
abundant,"something that is found in large amounts","The forest was abundant with animals and trees."
accuse,"to say someone did something wrong","She accused her brother of eating the last cookie."
accustom,"to get used to something","It took me a while to accustom myself to waking up early."
acquainted,"to know someone or something","I became acquainted with my new neighbour at school."
acquire,"to get or gain something","I want to acquire more books for my collection."
across,"from one side to the other","The cat ran across the street to the other side."
address,"to speak to or talk about","He needed to address the class before the project started."
address,"the place where someone lives or works","Please send the letter to my new address."
adhere,"to stick to something","The sticker wouldn’t adhere to the paper."
admission,"the right to enter or join something","She got admission into the school after passing the test."
admission,"the fee you pay to enter a place or event","The admission to the museum is free on Sundays."
adopt,"to choose to take care of something or someone as your own","The family decided to adopt a dog from the shelter."
adopt,"to legally take a child as your own","They adopted a baby from another country."
advance,"to move forward or make progress","He tried to advance in his studies by studying every day."
advance,"a forward movement, especially in battle or war","The army made an advance toward the enemy camp."
affable,"friendly and easy to talk to","The teacher was very affable and always smiled."
affectionate,"showing love or kindness","The dog was very affectionate towards its owner."
affectionate,"expressing fondness or warmth","She gave him an affectionate hug when he arrived."
aid,"help or assistance","The teacher gave aid to the students who were struggling."
alert,"to be awake and ready for something","The dog was alert and ready to catch the ball."
alert,"quick to respond to danger or a situation","The fire alarm went off, and everyone became alert."
all right,"something that is okay or fine","It’s all right to be late once in a while."
ally,"someone who helps or supports you","They became allies to defeat the evil dragon."
altitude,"how high something is above the ground","The plane flew at a high altitude above the clouds."
altitude,"the height above sea level","Mount Everest has the highest altitude of any mountain in the world."
ambition,"a strong desire to achieve something","Her ambition is to become a scientist when she grows up."
amount,"how much or how many of something","The amount of food on the table was enormous."
ample,"plenty of something","There was ample space in the room for all the chairs."
ample,"more than enough","They had an ample supply of food for the party."
antiquity,"something very old or ancient","The museum had many items from antiquity, like old pots and tools."
antiquity,"the time long ago, especially in ancient times","The ancient civilisations of antiquity had many great achievements."
anxious,"feeling worried or nervous","She was anxious about taking the big test tomorrow."
appeal,"to ask for something or make a request","He made an appeal for help after the storm."
appearance,"the way something looks","Her appearance was neat with her hair neatly combed."
appearance,"the way someone looks","His appearance was quite different after his haircut."
apprehensive,"feeling worried or nervous about something that might happen","He felt apprehensive before the big performance."
apprehensive,"concerned about something uncertain","She was apprehensive about the new school year."
approve,"to say something is okay or right","My parents approve of my new school project."
approve,"to officially accept or accept something","The committee will approve the new plan next week."
arduous,"something that is hard or difficult to do","Climbing the mountain was an arduous task."
arduous,"requiring a lot of effort or hard work","The student found the homework arduous and challenging."
argument,"a discussion where people disagree","They had an argument about who should go first."
argument,"a reason or explanation for something","His argument for choosing the red car was convincing."
arouse,"to make someone feel a certain way or wake them up","The loud noise aroused the baby from his nap."
arouse,"to cause strong feelings or excitement","The speech aroused a sense of patriotism in the crowd."
artful,"skillful or clever in a way that is not obvious","The artist’s artful painting amazed everyone."
artful,"done with cleverness or skill","He gave an artful performance in the play."
article,"a short piece of writing about something","I read an article about animals in the newspaper."
article,"an object or item in a list or group","The article in the shopping list is bread."
assemble,"to put things together or gather people","We need to assemble the pieces of the puzzle."
assemble,"to gather together in one place","The workers will assemble at the office at 9 AM."
assiduous,"working hard and being careful","The assiduous student finished her homework quickly."
assistance,"help or support","He asked for assistance when he got stuck on the homework."
asunder,"into pieces","The book was torn asunder during the storm."
attached,"something that is joined or connected","She attached the sticker to her notebook."
attached,"emotionally connected or involved","He was very attached to his childhood pet."
attempt,"to try to do something","He made an attempt to climb the tree but fell."
attempt,"an effort or try to do something","The first attempt at building the tower was unsuccessful."
available,"ready to be used or found","The book is available at the library."
available,"able to be reached or contacted","The teacher is available after school for help."
average,"what is normal or typical","The average age of the class is 12 years old."
average,"a number calculated by adding up numbers and dividing","The average of the test scores was 85."
avoid,"to stay away from something","It’s best to avoid eating too much candy."
avoid,"to prevent something from happening","He tried to avoid making any mistakes in his work."
avowed,"something that is openly stated or declared","He avowed that he would never lie again."
avowed,"a strong public declaration or promise","His avowed goal was to help the environment."
awkward,"feeling uncomfortable or strange","She felt awkward when she dropped her lunch in front of everyone."
awkward,"a situation that feels uncomfortable or difficult","The meeting was awkward because nobody knew what to say."
banish,"to send someone or something away","The king decided to banish the bad thief from the kingdom."
banish,"to get rid of something","We need to banish the weeds from the garden."
bargain,"an agreement where both sides get something good","She found a great bargain at the store for her new shoes."
bargain,"a sale or deal where things are cheaper","I bought this jacket at a bargain price."
barren,"empty or without life","The barren land had no trees or flowers."
barren,"unable to produce crops or plants","The soil was barren, and nothing would grow there."
beautiful,"something that looks very nice","The sunset was so beautiful with its bright colours."
beautiful,"someone or something that is attractive or lovely","She is a beautiful singer who sings with a clear voice."
because,"giving a reason or explanation","She smiled because she was happy."
because,"for the reason that","He went inside because it was too cold outside."
beck,"to signal or call for someone","He gave a beck to his friend to come over."
beck,"a small stream or brook","They crossed the beck to reach the meadow."
believe,"to think that something is true","I believe in magic and fairy tales."
believe,"to have trust in something or someone","I believe in my friend's abilities."
belligerent,"being hostile or ready to fight","The belligerent dog barked loudly at everyone."
belligerent,"someone who is involved in a war or fight","The soldiers were belligerent in the battle."
bemused,"confused or puzzled","He had a bemused look on his face when he didn’t understand the question."
bemused,"lost in thought or distracted","She looked bemused as she thought about her plans for the weekend."
benefit,"something good that helps or improves things","Exercise has many benefits for your health."
benefit,"an advantage or good result","The benefit of staying organised is saving time."
besieged,"to be surrounded by many people or things","The town was besieged by soldiers during the battle."
besieged,"overwhelmed by requests or problems","The office was besieged with phone calls after the announcement."
betray,"to be disloyal or trick someone","He would never betray his friends by telling their secrets."
betray,"to reveal a secret or confidence","She accidentally betrayed the surprise party plan."
bewildered,"confused or unsure of what is happening","She was bewildered by the new rules at school."
bewildered,"lost or uncertain","He felt bewildered when he couldn’t find his way home."
word,definition,sentence
bicycle,"a vehicle with two wheels that you ride","I rode my bicycle to the park this afternoon."
bicycle,"to ride a bicycle","She learned how to bicycle when she was five years old."
box,"a container used to store things","I packed my books in a cardboard box."
box,"a square or rectangular shape","He drew a box on the paper to put the picture inside."
box,"to fight using your fists","The two athletes decided to box in the ring."
brief,"short in time or duration","The meeting was brief, lasting only 15 minutes."
brief,"a document that explains details or instructions","He gave me a brief of the project before I started working."
Britain,"a country made up of England, Scotland, and Wales","I live in Britain, and I love the countryside."
Britain,"the island containing England, Scotland, and Wales","Britain is known for its beautiful landscapes and castles."
broad,"wide, covering a large area","The broad river stretched across the valley."
broad,"having a large range or variety","She had a broad smile that lit up her face."
bruise,"a purple mark on the skin after being hit","He had a bruise on his arm from falling off his bike."
bruise,"to injure or hurt something, often with a dark mark","She bruised her knee when she tripped over the rock."
brusque,"very short and not friendly in manner","He gave a brusque reply to the question."
brusque,"quick but unfriendly","Her brusque way of speaking made me feel uncomfortable."
burden,"something heavy or hard to carry","The heavy backpack was a burden for the young child."
burden,"a responsibility or something that causes stress","Taking care of the house became a burden for him."
business,"a company or place where goods are sold","She owns a small business that sells handmade jewellery."
business,"work that involves buying and selling goods or services","He decided to start his own business selling shoes."
calamity,"a disaster or very bad event","The flood was a calamity for the village, destroying homes."
calamity,"a terrible event that causes damage or harm","The earthquake was a calamity that affected many people."
candidate,"a person who is being considered for a job or position","She is a candidate for the role of class president."
candidate,"someone who is taking part in an election or competition","There are five candidates running for mayor in the town."
careering,"moving very fast or wildly in a direction","The car was careering down the hill without control."
careering,"to move quickly and out of control","He was careering around the track during the race."
category,"a group of things that are similar in some way","There are three categories for the school talent show: singing, dancing, and acting."
category,"a specific type or group of things","This book belongs to the fantasy category."
caulking,"a material used to seal gaps or cracks","He used caulking to seal the window to prevent drafts."
caulking,"to fill up cracks or holes to keep things sealed","The caulking around the window kept the cold air out."
caution,"being careful or aware of danger","He walked with caution near the edge of the cliff."
caution,"warning about something dangerous or risky","The sign gave caution about slippery floors."
cease,"to stop or come to an end","The rain will cease by tomorrow afternoon."
cease,"to stop doing something","He will cease talking after the bell rings."
cemetery,"a place where people are buried","The cemetery is located near the old church."
cemetery,"a graveyard where people rest after passing away","They visited the cemetery to honour their grandparents."
chaos,"a state of complete confusion or disorder","The classroom was in chaos after the fire drill."
chaos,"a situation where nothing is organised","The kitchen was in chaos after the big dinner party."
charred,"burnt or scorched, usually to a black colour","The charred wood was still smouldering from the fire."
charred,"something that has been burned badly","The charred edges of the toast made it hard to eat."
choreographer,"a person who designs or arranges dances","The choreographer taught us a new dance for the school play."
choreographer,"someone who creates and arranges the steps in a dance","She is a talented choreographer known for her creative routines."
clemency,"mercy or leniency, especially in a punishment","The judge showed clemency to the young offender and gave him a light sentence."
clemency,"the act of being kind or forgiving when it comes to punishment","The king granted clemency to those who asked for his forgiveness."
coarse,"rough or not smooth","The coarse sandpaper helped smooth the wood surface."
coarse,"made of large or rough parts","The coarse fabric scratched against my skin."
coax,"to gently persuade or encourage someone to do something","She coaxed the shy kitten out from under the bed."
coax,"to get something by gentle persuasion","He had to coax his dog into the car for the vet appointment."
college,"a place of learning after high school","She plans to attend college next year to study science."
college,"an institution where students go to receive higher education","He decided to attend college in London to study history."
colour,"the appearance of something due to light and pigments","The colour of the sky was a beautiful blue this morning."
colour,"a specific shade of light, like blue, red, or yellow","She loves the colour purple and wears it often."
combination,"a mix of different things","The combination of chocolate and peanut butter makes a great treat."
combination,"something that is made by combining different things","The combination of spices gave the soup a unique taste."
commence,"to start or begin","The concert will commence at 7 PM."
commence,"to begin an activity or event","The meeting will commence once everyone arrives."
commit,"to do something, especially a crime or wrong action","He did not commit the crime and was found innocent."
commit,"to carry out or perform an action","She committed to finishing her homework before dinner."
committee,"a group of people working together for a purpose","The committee met to discuss the plans for the new playground."
committee,"a group of people who make decisions or plans for something","The committee decided to organise a charity event."
communicate,"to share information or ideas with someone","They communicate through email when they’re at work."
communicate,"to talk to someone or send a message","She communicated her feelings through a heartfelt letter."
community,"a group of people living in the same area or having something in common","The community came together to help clean the park."
community,"a group of people who share similar interests or backgrounds","The local community supported the school’s fundraising event."
companion,"a person or animal that is with you and helps you","The dog was his loyal companion during the hike."
companion,"someone who spends time with you, especially in a friendly way","She was his travel companion during their trip abroad."
company,"a group of people working together in business","The company manufactures cars and sells them worldwide."
company,"a group of people or an organisation","The company hired 100 new employees last year."
compel,"to force someone to do something","The teacher compelled the student to apologise for being rude."
compel,"to make someone feel that they must do something","The movie's plot compelled me to keep watching until the end."
competition,"a contest where people try to win or achieve something","The students entered a competition to win a free trip to the zoo."
competition,"an event where people try to win by being the best at something","She entered the cooking competition to show off her skills."
completely,"totally or fully","The house was completely clean after the big tidy-up."
completely,"entirely or fully with no part left out","The book was completely finished after the last page."
complex,"something that has many parts or is not simple","The puzzle was too complex for me to solve."
complex,"something that is made of many connected parts","Her complex story had many twists and turns."
composition,"a piece of writing or a musical work","Her composition for the piano recital was beautiful."
composition,"the way something is put together or arranged","The composition of the painting was very detailed."
comprehend,"to understand or grasp an idea","I couldn’t comprehend the lesson until the teacher explained it again."
comprehend,"to understand the meaning of something","He didn’t fully comprehend the instructions given."
comrade,"a friend or companion, often in a difficult or challenging situation","He is a comrade from my time in the army."
comrade,"a fellow member of a group with a shared purpose","The workers acted as comrades during the strike."
conceal,"to hide something or keep it a secret","She tried to conceal the surprise party from her friend."
conceal,"to cover or hide something so it is not seen","He concealed the gift under the table."
conceited,"thinking too much of yourself and being proud in an unfriendly way","The conceited boy always talked about how great he was at sports."
conceited,"having an overly high opinion of your own abilities","She was so conceited, always boasting about her grades."
concentrated,"to make something stronger by removing water or other parts","Concentrated orange juice is made by removing the water from the fruit."
concentrated,"something done with focus and effort","She concentrated on her homework until it was done."
word,definition,sentence
conclude,"to bring something to an end or finish","The meeting will conclude at 5 PM."
conclude,"to decide or come to a conclusion about something","I concluded that the project was successful after reviewing the results."
conclusion,"the final part of something, like an essay or a story","The conclusion of the book was surprising."
conclusion,"a judgment or decision made after thinking about something","The conclusion of the debate was clear, and everyone agreed."
condemn,"to say something is wrong or bad","The teacher condemned cheating during the exam."
condemn,"to punish or criticize strongly","The judge condemned the criminal for his actions."
conferred,"to give or grant something, usually an award or title","The university conferred an honorary degree on the famous scientist."
conferred,"to discuss something with others to make a decision","The team conferred before making their final decision."
confine,"to limit or keep something within certain boundaries","He was confined to his room as a punishment."
confine,"to keep someone or something inside a space","The animals were confined to their pens at the zoo."
conscience,"the sense of right and wrong in your mind","His conscience told him to apologise for his mistake."
conscience,"the part of your mind that helps you make moral decisions","Her conscience bothered her after telling a lie."
conscious,"aware of what is happening around you","She was conscious during the surgery and could hear the doctors talking."
conscious,"noticing and thinking about things around you","He was conscious of the fact that everyone was looking at him."
consent,"to agree to something or give permission","He gave his consent for the project to go ahead."
consent,"to allow or approve of something","She asked for her parents' consent before going to the party."
conserve,"to protect or save something, especially the environment","We must conserve water during the drought."
conserve,"to use something carefully and not waste it","The zoo works hard to conserve endangered species."
consideration,"careful thought or attention about something","He gave careful consideration to the idea before deciding."
consideration,"something that is thought about before making a decision","Her feelings were an important consideration in their decision."
consist,"to be made of or composed of different parts","The cake consists of flour, sugar, and eggs."
consist,"to have something as its main or most important part","The class consists of students from all over the world."
conspire,"to secretly plan something harmful or illegal","They conspired to steal the treasure from the museum."
conspire,"to secretly work together for a particular purpose","The group conspired to win the competition."
constant,"something that does not change over time","The constant sound of the clock ticking made it hard to focus."
constant,"happening all the time without stopping","She had a constant need to check her phone."
consume,"to use up or eat something","He consumed all of his lunch in just a few minutes."
consume,"to use or spend something completely","They consumed all of the energy in the batteries."
contemporary,"someone who lives at the same time as another person","He is a contemporary of my grandfather."
contemporary,"something that exists or happens in the present time","Modern art is often made by contemporary artists."
contempt,"a feeling that someone or something is not worth respect","He looked at the messy room with contempt."
contempt,"a strong dislike or disrespect for someone or something","She treated the rude customer with contempt."
content,"the information or ideas in something, like a book or a film","The content of the speech was very inspiring."
content,"feeling happy and satisfied with what you have","She was content with her simple life in the countryside."
contest,"a competition to see who is the best at something","The school held a contest to see who could jump the highest."
contest,"an event where people try to win by performing or competing","He entered the contest to design the best poster."
contract,"an agreement between people or groups, often written down","They signed a contract to start the new business together."
contract,"to become smaller or tighter","The metal will contract when it gets cold."
contrast,"to show how things are different from each other","The contrast between the two paintings was clear in the gallery."
contrast,"to compare two things to highlight their differences","He liked to contrast the two books to see which one was better."
contribute,"to give something, like money or help, to a cause or group","She decided to contribute to the charity by donating £20."
contribute,"to add something to make something bigger or better","Everyone in the team contributed their ideas to the project."
conventional,"following traditional ways of doing things","The family followed conventional customs during the holiday."
conventional,"something that is usual or traditional in society","Wearing formal clothes to a wedding is a conventional practice."
convert,"to change something into a different form","She converted the old barn into a beautiful house."
convert,"to change your beliefs or way of thinking","He converted to a new religion after moving to a different country."
convey,"to communicate or express something to others","The teacher tried to convey the importance of studying to the students."
convey,"to carry something from one place to another","The pipes convey the water from the lake to the farm."
convict,"to find someone guilty of a crime in a court of law","He was convicted of stealing and sent to prison."
convict,"a person who has been found guilty of a crime","The convict spent years in prison for his crimes."
convince,"to make someone believe or agree with you","He tried to convince his parents to let him go on the trip."
convince,"to persuade someone to do something","She convinced me to join her in the art competition."
correct,"to make something right or fix an error","She needed to correct her homework before turning it in."
correct,"accurate or free from mistakes","His answer was correct, so he got full marks on the test."
covert,"hidden or secret","The spy was on a covert mission to gather information."
covert,"done in a way that is not easily noticed","They held a covert meeting to discuss the project."
covet,"to strongly desire something that belongs to someone else","She covets her friend's new bicycle."
covet,"to want something very much, even though it's not yours","He covets his neighbour's sports car."
coy,"pretending to be shy or modest, but in a playful way","She gave a coy smile when asked about her surprise party."
coy,"not saying much, especially to avoid revealing something","He was coy about his plans for the weekend."
credit,"recognition or praise for something you have done","He received credit for the idea that saved the company."
credit,"money that you borrow and promise to pay back later","She used her credit card to buy the new phone."
cultivate,"to grow or prepare plants for farming","Farmers cultivate crops like wheat and corn."
cultivate,"to develop or improve a skill or relationship","She worked hard to cultivate her musical talents."
cunning,"being clever and tricky to achieve something","The cunning fox managed to escape from the hunter."
cunning,"having a clever or deceitful way of doing things","His cunning plan to win the game worked perfectly."
curb,"to control or limit something","The government wants to curb the amount of pollution in the city."
curb,"a raised edge along the street or road","She tripped over the curb while walking down the sidewalk."
curious,"wanting to know or learn more about something","The curious child asked many questions about the stars."
curious,"strange or unusual, causing interest or wonder","It was a curious sight to see a deer in the middle of the city."
curt,"short and rude in manner","His curt reply made me feel uncomfortable."
curt,"brief and to the point, sometimes in an impolite way","She gave a curt answer to avoid talking longer."
custom,"something that is done regularly in a particular group or place","It is a custom to shake hands when meeting someone in many cultures."
custom,"a tradition or habit followed by a group or society","They have a custom of eating turkey on Christmas Day."
debate,"a formal discussion about different sides of an issue","The class had a debate about the best way to solve the problem."
debate,"to argue or discuss something in a formal way","They debated whether the school should have longer breaks."
debrief,"to discuss the details of something that has just happened","After the meeting, we debriefed the plan to see what went well."
debrief,"to explain the results or lessons from an event","The coach debriefed the players after the match."
deceit,"the act of hiding the truth or lying","He was punished for his deceit during the test."
deceive,"to lie or trick someone into believing something that isn’t true","She tried to deceive her parents about where she was going."
word,definition,sentence
declare,"to announce or say something publicly","He declared that he would run for class president."
declare,"to state something officially or clearly","The teacher declared the test results to the class."
decline,"to say no to something or refuse it","She politely declined the invitation to the party."
decline,"to become less or worse over time","The quality of the painting declined after years of neglect."
definite,"clear and certain","She gave a definite answer when asked about her plans."
definite,"having a clear and firm meaning","The rules were definite and couldn't be changed."
deliberate,"to think about something carefully before deciding","They deliberated for hours before making a decision."
deliberate,"done on purpose or with careful planning","His actions were deliberate and well thought out."
demolished,"completely destroyed or torn down","The old building was demolished to make way for a new one."
demolished,"to break or ruin something completely","The car was demolished in the accident."
deny,"to say something isn't true or refuse to accept it","He denied breaking the vase."
deny,"to refuse to give someone something they want or need","She denied her brother's request to borrow her bike."
deposit,"to put something down, especially money or items","He deposited the money in the bank."
deposit,"a sum of money put into an account or held for safekeeping","She made a deposit of £50 into her savings account."
depot,"a place where vehicles or goods are stored or taken care of","The train depot was full of passengers waiting for their train."
depot,"a building where buses or trains are kept","We waited at the bus depot for the next bus."
derelict,"in poor condition because of neglect or disuse","The derelict house was covered in vines and broken windows."
derelict,"someone who has no home and lives on the streets","The city helps provide shelter for the derelict people."
description,"a written or spoken explanation of something","He gave a detailed description of the book to his friend."
description,"the way something or someone looks or is made","The description of the new toy was very exciting."
despair,"a feeling of hopelessness or sadness","After hearing the bad news, she felt a deep sense of despair."
despair,"to lose hope or believe that nothing will get better","He began to despair when he couldn't find his keys."
desperately,"in a way that shows great need or urgency","She desperately tried to find her lost dog."
desperately,"in a very strong way, usually because of a lack of hope","They were desperately searching for a way to solve the problem."
despise,"to feel hatred or dislike for something or someone","He despised the way his classmate treated others."
despise,"to think that something is very unworthy or bad","She despised the way he lied to her."
destitute,"lacking the basic things needed for life, like food or shelter","The family was destitute after the house burned down."
destitute,"without money, food, or possessions","He felt destitute when he lost his job and home."
determine,"to decide or settle something with certainty","She determined to finish the project by the deadline."
determine,"to figure out something after careful thinking","He determined the answer to the math problem."
develop,"to grow or improve over time","The plant began to develop leaves after a few days."
develop,"to create or produce something new","She wants to develop a new app to help people learn languages."
device,"a tool or piece of equipment used for a particular purpose","A smartphone is a device used for communication and entertainment."
device,"an electronic or mechanical machine used for specific tasks","The GPS device helped us find our way through the city."
devote,"to dedicate time, effort, or resources to something","She devotes a lot of time to volunteering at the animal shelter."
devote,"to give all your attention and energy to something important","He devotes his weekends to working on his art projects."
dictionary,"a book or online resource with the meanings of words","She looked up the word in the dictionary to understand it better."
dictionary,"a reference book that lists words and their definitions","The teacher told the class to use the dictionary for their homework."
digest,"to break down food in the stomach or mind","It took a while for him to digest the news about his move."
digest,"to understand or think carefully about something","She needed time to digest the information from the meeting."
dilapidated,"in a very bad condition, especially because of neglect","The dilapidated house was falling apart and unsafe to live in."
dilapidated,"broken down or ruined by age or lack of care","The dilapidated car had been abandoned in the driveway."
din,"a loud, continuous noise","The din of the construction made it difficult to concentrate."
din,"a loud and unpleasant sound that goes on for a long time","The din of the crowd cheered as the team scored a goal."
disappear,"to stop being seen or become invisible","The magician made the rabbit disappear from the hat."
disappear,"to go away and not be found again","The car disappeared into the fog on the road."
disappointed,"feeling sad because something didn't happen as expected","She was disappointed when the concert was cancelled."
disappointed,"to feel let down or upset when things don't go as hoped","He was disappointed after losing the race."
disarray,"a state of confusion or disorder","The room was in disarray after the kids played with the toys."
disarray,"when things are messy or not organised properly","The kitchen was in disarray after the party."
disastrous,"very bad or causing harm or damage","The fire had a disastrous effect on the whole building."
disastrous,"having a terrible outcome, often causing a lot of trouble","The storm caused disastrous flooding in the town."
disclose,"to reveal or make something known","He disclosed his secret to his best friend."
disclose,"to give out information that was kept secret or hidden","The company disclosed its plans to expand overseas."
discontent,"a feeling of unhappiness or dissatisfaction","The workers expressed discontent about their long hours."
discontent,"when someone is not happy with something","She felt discontent with her grades after the test."
dishevelled,"untidy or messy, especially in appearance","His hair was dishevelled after the long day at work."
dishevelled,"looking messy or out of order","She looked dishevelled after running to catch the bus."
dismal,"gloomy or sad","The dismal weather made everyone feel down."
dismal,"very poor or disappointing","The team's dismal performance led to their defeat."
disperse,"to spread out or scatter","The crowd began to disperse after the event ended."
disperse,"to break up and go in different directions","The protesters dispersed when the police arrived."
dispute,"a disagreement or argument between people","The dispute between the two friends lasted for days."
dispute,"to argue or challenge something that is said or done","They disputed the rules of the game during the match."
distasteful,"something that is unpleasant or hard to accept","The smell of the garbage was distasteful."
distasteful,"something that is rude or offensive","His distasteful comment upset everyone in the room."
distinct,"clearly different or separate from something else","The two colours were distinct and easy to tell apart."
distinct,"having a noticeable or unique quality","There was a distinct smell of fresh bread in the air."
distinguished,"famous or respected for achievements or qualities","She is a distinguished scientist known for her research."
distinguished,"having a high level of respect or importance","The distinguished professor gave a lecture on history."
distress,"a state of extreme worry, suffering, or pain","She was in distress after losing her wallet."
distress,"to make someone feel anxious or troubled","The news of the accident distressed the family."
divine,"relating to a god or gods","In ancient times, people believed that divine beings controlled the world."
divine,"very beautiful, wonderful, or perfect","The sunset over the ocean was a divine sight."
divinity,"the quality of being a god or divine being","People worshipped the divinity of the sun and moon."
divinity,"the study of gods or religion","She was studying divinity at the university."
domestic,"relating to home or family life","Domestic chores include cleaning, cooking, and washing."
domestic,"related to animals that are kept as pets or for work at home","Dogs and cats are domestic animals that live with people."
dose,"a measured amount of medicine or a substance","He took a dose of medicine to help with his cold."
dose,"a small amount of something, especially something harmful","The poison was given in a lethal dose."
drought,"a long period without enough rain","The drought caused crops to fail and water to run out."
drought,"a shortage of water due to little or no rainfall","Farmers were worried about the effects of the drought on their crops."
dumb,"stupid or not intelligent","He felt dumb when he couldn't answer the question."
dumb,"unable to speak","The boy was born dumb and communicated using sign language."
dwelling,"a place where someone lives, such as a house or apartment","Their dwelling was on the top floor of the building."
dwelling,"a building or structure where people live","The village is made up of small dwellings spread across the countryside."
word,definition,sentence
earnest,"serious and sincere","She gave an earnest apology for forgetting her friend's birthday."
earnest,"showing deep interest or effort","He was earnest in his efforts to study for the big test."
economical,"not using a lot of money or resources","She was very economical when shopping, always looking for sales."
economical,"costing little, or using resources wisely","An electric car is more economical because it saves fuel."
elect,"to choose someone for a job or role by voting","The class will elect a new president next week."
elect,"to decide or choose someone to do something","She was elected as the team captain."
elude,"to escape from or avoid someone or something","The mouse managed to elude the cat by running into the hole."
elude,"to avoid being caught or noticed","The answer to the puzzle still eludes me."
embarrass,"to make someone feel awkward or self-conscious","She felt embarrassed when she tripped in front of the class."
embarrass,"to cause someone to feel uncomfortable or ashamed","His loud laughter embarrassed his friend."
embrace,"to hug someone tightly, especially as a sign of affection","They embraced each other after a long time apart."
embrace,"to accept something willingly or enthusiastically","She embraced the idea of trying something new."
emerge,"to come out of something or appear from a place","A butterfly emerged from its cocoon after a few weeks."
emerge,"to become known or visible after being hidden","A bright light emerged from behind the clouds."
empire,"a large group of countries or territories ruled by one leader","The Roman Empire controlled much of Europe and the Mediterranean."
empire,"a group of businesses or organizations controlled by one person or company","His company grew into an empire in the tech industry."
employ,"to hire someone to work for you","The company employed hundreds of workers at its factory."
employ,"to use something for a particular purpose","She employed her skills to solve the difficult puzzle."
endeavour,"to try hard to do something","He will endeavour to finish the project before the deadline."
endeavour,"an effort or attempt to do something difficult","Climbing the mountain was a challenging endeavour."
endure,"to continue to do something even though it is difficult","She endured the long hike and reached the summit."
endure,"to last or survive for a long time","The tradition has endured for generations in their family."
enterprise,"a business or company","His new enterprise sold handmade toys online."
enterprise,"a project or plan that involves a lot of effort","Starting a new school garden was a big enterprise."
entire,"whole or complete","She ate the entire pizza by herself."
entire,"all of something without missing any part","The entire class was excited about the field trip."
entirely,"completely or totally","The room was entirely decorated in blue."
entirely,"in every way or aspect","She was entirely surprised by the party."
environment,"the natural world around us, including land, air, and water","We need to protect the environment to keep it healthy."
environment,"the surroundings or conditions in which something exists","The office environment is quiet and peaceful."
equip,"to provide with the necessary tools or equipment","The team was equipped with all the gear they needed for the hike."
equip,"to prepare or make ready for something","They were equipped with the latest technology for the mission."
equipment,"the tools or devices used for a particular task","The kitchen equipment included knives, pans, and blenders."
equipment,"gear or materials needed for a specific job or activity","The school provided all the equipment needed for science experiments."
equipped,"having the necessary tools or resources","She was well-equipped to handle the job."
equipped,"prepared or ready for something","They were equipped for the trip with warm clothing and food."
erect,"to build or put something up","They erected a tent for the camping trip."
erect,"standing upright or vertical","The flag was erect on the pole, waving in the wind."
errand,"a small task or job to be done, usually outside the house","I need to run an errand to the post office."
errand,"a short trip to get something or deliver a message","She went out on an errand to pick up the groceries."
especially,"used to show something is more important or special than others","She loves animals, especially dogs."
especially,"in a way that makes something stand out more","He enjoys playing sports, especially football."
estimate,"to guess or calculate the amount or number of something","Can you estimate how many candies are in the jar?"
estimate,"an approximate calculation or guess","The estimate for the repairs was higher than expected."
evaluation,"the process of judging or measuring something's quality","The teacher did an evaluation of the students' projects."
evaluation,"an assessment of how well something is done","The evaluation of the new product showed great results."
evident,"clear or easy to see or understand","It was evident that she was upset after hearing the news."
evident,"obvious or apparent","The smile on his face was evident as he opened the gift."
exaggerate,"to say something is bigger, better, or worse than it really is","He tended to exaggerate his stories to make them more exciting."
exaggerate,"to overstate or make something seem more important or extreme","She exaggerated how hard the test was, making it seem impossible."
excellent,"very good or of high quality","Her performance in the play was excellent."
excellent,"extremely good or impressive","The food at the restaurant was excellent."
excitement,"a feeling of joy or enthusiasm about something","The excitement in the air was palpable before the concert started."
excitement,"a state of being excited or eager","The kids screamed with excitement when they saw the clown."
exciting,"causing great interest or enthusiasm","The roller coaster ride was so exciting!"
exciting,"something that is thrilling or fun","It was an exciting game, with lots of action."
exclaim,"to say something loudly or with excitement","He exclaimed, 'Wow, this is amazing!'"
exclaim,"to shout or speak out in surprise or joy","She exclaimed with joy when she got the good news."
existence,"the fact that something is real or alive","The existence of life on other planets is a topic of debate."
existence,"the state of being alive or present in the world","We need to protect the existence of endangered species."
expel,"to officially remove someone from a place or group","He was expelled from school for breaking the rules."
expel,"to force something out or away","The teacher had to expel the bad air from the classroom."
expense,"the cost of something or the money spent","The expense of the new laptop was worth it for work."
expense,"the amount of money needed to pay for something","Her monthly expenses include rent, food, and utilities."
explanation,"a statement that makes something clear or easy to understand","He gave a simple explanation of how the machine works."
explanation,"a reason or detail that helps to clarify something","The explanation of the science project was clear and thorough."
extended,"made longer in time or distance","The vacation was extended by two more days."
extended,"reached out or increased in size","The teacher extended her hand to help the student."
exterior,"the outside or outer part of something","The exterior of the house was painted a bright yellow."
exterior,"the outer surface of something","The car’s exterior was shiny after the wash."
extinction,"the state of a species or group no longer existing","The extinction of dinosaurs is a well-known fact."
extinction,"the process of something dying out or disappearing","Many animals are at risk of extinction due to habitat loss."
extract,"to remove or take something out, especially with force","They had to extract the broken tooth from his mouth."
extract,"a substance taken from something else, often for a special use","Vanilla extract is used in many dessert recipes."
extremely,"very or highly","It was extremely cold outside, so I wore a thick coat."
extremely,"in a very great or intense way","The movie was extremely funny and made everyone laugh."
famine,"a severe shortage of food that leads to hunger","The country suffered from a famine that affected millions of people."
famine,"a time when there is not enough food for everyone","The famine caused many people to leave their homes in search of food."
fatal,"able to cause death or something very serious","The injury was fatal and the patient did not survive."
fatal,"leading to death or destruction","The accident was fatal for the driver."
fatigue,"extreme tiredness or exhaustion","He felt fatigue after working for hours without rest."
fatigue,"the state of being very tired or worn out","She pushed through the fatigue to finish the race."
favourite,"something that is liked most by someone","Pizza is my favourite food."
favourite,"the person or thing that is preferred over others","My favourite book is 'Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone.'"
word,definition,sentence
feeble,"weak or lacking strength","The feeble puppy struggled to stand up on its own."
feeble,"not strong or effective","His argument was feeble and did not convince anyone."
feign,"to pretend or fake something","She feigned a smile even though she felt sad."
feign,"to make something appear as if it is true","He feigned illness to avoid going to school."
fertile,"able to produce plants or crops easily","The soil in the garden is fertile, making it perfect for growing vegetables."
fertile,"full of life or energy","The fertile imagination of the artist led to amazing ideas."
flamboyant,"showy or very colorful, often in a bold way","The flamboyant peacock spread its bright feathers."
flamboyant,"bright, lively, and full of energy","She wore a flamboyant dress to the party that caught everyone's attention."
flawless,"perfect or without any mistakes","Her performance was flawless, and she received a standing ovation."
flawless,"without any faults or defects","The diamond was flawless and sparkled in the light."
flee,"to run away from something in fear or danger","The rabbit had to flee from the fox to stay safe."
flee,"to escape or leave quickly","They had to flee the building when the fire alarm went off."
fleet,"a group of ships, vehicles, or aircraft","The navy fleet sailed across the ocean for an important mission."
fleet,"moving quickly or fast","The fleet car zipped down the highway."
flora,"the plants of a particular region or environment","The flora in the rainforest is diverse and beautiful."
flora,"the collection of plants in an area","The flora of the island includes many tropical flowers."
flourish,"to grow well or thrive","The garden began to flourish after being watered regularly."
flourish,"a dramatic or impressive action or decoration","He made a flourish with his cape before exiting the stage."
foe,"an enemy or opponent","The knight battled his foe in the great tournament."
foe,"someone who is against you or your team","The soccer team defeated their foe in the championship match."
forbid,"to order someone not to do something","My parents forbid me to stay out past midnight."
forbid,"to prevent something from happening","The rules forbid running in the hallways at school."
foundation,"the base or support on which something is built","The foundation of the house was strong and secure."
foundation,"the starting point or basis of something","The foundation of her argument was well-reasoned and clear."
fragment,"a small piece or part of something","He found a fragment of glass on the ground after the vase broke."
fragment,"a broken piece or part of something larger","She picked up the fragment of the broken plate."
fragrant,"having a pleasant smell","The flowers in the garden were fragrant and smelled wonderful."
fragrant,"a sweet-smelling scent or aroma","The fragrant perfume filled the room as she walked in."
frequent,"happening often or many times","They made frequent trips to the park every weekend."
frequent,"to visit or go to something often","She frequently goes to the library to read books."
friend,"someone you like and trust","My best friend and I do everything together."
friend,"a person who you enjoy spending time with and care about","She invited all her friends to her birthday party."
frivolous,"not serious or important","He spent all his money on frivolous things like toys and games."
frivolous,"silly or unnecessary","The conversation was filled with frivolous chatter."
fund,"money that is collected or saved for a particular purpose","They set up a fund to help the local animal shelter."
fund,"to provide money for something","They will fund the new playground with the donations from the community."
garment,"an item of clothing","She wore a beautiful garment to the wedding."
garment,"a piece of clothing like a dress or shirt","The tailor created a new garment for the fashion show."
government,"the group of people who make the laws and decisions for a country or area","The government is working on new policies for education."
government,"the system of ruling or governing a country or group of people","The country’s government held an election for president."
grate,"a metal frame with openings used for cooking or covering","The grill has a grate where the food is placed."
grate,"to make a harsh sound by rubbing two things together","The sound of the metal scraping on the ground grated on my nerves."
gratitude,"the feeling of being thankful","She showed her gratitude by writing a thank-you note."
gratitude,"a feeling of appreciation or thanks","We express our gratitude to everyone who helped with the project."
grave,"a place where a body is buried","The grave was marked with a simple stone."
grave,"serious or important","She had a grave expression on her face when delivering the news."
gregarious,"friendly and sociable, enjoying the company of others","The gregarious girl loved to chat with everyone at school."
gregarious,"enjoying being around people","He was gregarious and always surrounded by his friends."
grieve,"to feel sadness or sorrow, especially after a loss","She took time to grieve after the death of her pet."
grieve,"to mourn or feel sorrow for something or someone","He grieved the loss of his childhood home when it was sold."
grotesque,"strange or ugly in a way that is unpleasant","The monster in the movie had a grotesque appearance."
grotesque,"something that is very ugly or shocking","The design of the building was so grotesque that no one liked it."
guarantee,"a promise or assurance that something will happen or be done","The company offered a guarantee that the product would work."
guarantee,"a promise that something will happen or be fixed if it goes wrong","The warranty is a guarantee that the item will be replaced if it breaks."
guard,"a person who keeps something safe or protected","The guard stood at the entrance of the building, watching for danger."
guard,"to protect or keep something safe","She had to guard the cookies to prevent her brother from eating them."
habitable,"able to be lived in, safe for people to stay","The house was old but still habitable, with clean floors and a roof."
habitable,"suitable for living in or occupying","The apartment was spacious and habitable after the renovations."
habitat,"the place where an animal or plant lives","The forest is the habitat of many animals, such as bears and squirrels."
habitat,"the natural environment where a species lives or grows","Coral reefs are the habitat for many species of fish."
halt,"to stop or come to a stop","The bus came to a halt at the traffic light."
halt,"a pause or stop in movement or activity","They decided to halt the meeting until the next day."
handkerchief,"a small piece of cloth used for wiping your face or nose","He pulled out his handkerchief to wipe away his tears."
handkerchief,"a cloth used to clean your face or hands","She carried a handkerchief in her pocket just in case."
hasty,"done quickly and without enough thought or planning","He made a hasty decision to leave without considering all the facts."
hasty,"rushed or hurried, often leading to mistakes","The hasty reply was not thought through carefully."
helix,"a spiral or curved shape, like a coil","The DNA molecule has a helix structure."
helix,"a shape that spirals or curves around a central point","The stairs of the tower followed a helix pattern, twisting upward."
heroic,"having the qualities of a hero, like bravery or courage","The heroic firefighter rescued the family from the burning house."
heroic,"showing great courage or determination","The soldier's heroic actions saved many lives during the battle."
word,definition,sentence
hoax,"a trick or a lie meant to deceive people","The story about the UFO landing turned out to be a hoax."
hoax,"a false story or event created to deceive others","They played a hoax on their friends by pretending they had won the lottery."
holiday,"a special day for celebrating or resting","We are going on a holiday to the beach next week."
holiday,"a time when you take a break from work or school","She spent her holiday visiting family in another city."
hollow,"empty inside, not filled with anything","The tree had a hollow in the trunk where animals could live."
hollow,"having an empty space inside","The hollow sound echoed through the cave when we tapped the walls."
humble,"modest or not proud, not thinking you are better than others","Even though she won the race, she was humble and didn't brag."
humble,"having a low opinion of yourself or your achievements","He remained humble, even after receiving many compliments."
hygienic,"clean or promoting good health by being clean","It is important to keep your hands hygienic by washing them often."
hygienic,"helping to maintain good health by being clean and neat","The restaurant maintained hygienic standards to ensure food safety."
idiosyncrasy,"a characteristic or habit that is strange or unusual","One of her idiosyncrasies is always wearing socks with sandals."
idiosyncrasy,"a personal habit or way of doing something that is unique to someone","He had the idiosyncrasy of tapping his fingers when he was nervous."
idle,"not doing anything, not being used","The car sat idle in the garage for months without being driven."
idle,"lazy, not working or not being used for anything","She spent a lot of time idle on the couch watching TV."
idol,"a person who is admired or loved by many people","The singer became a pop idol after her first album."
idol,"a figure or statue that people worship or admire","The children had posters of their favorite idols on their bedroom walls."
ignorant,"not knowing something or lacking knowledge about it","He was ignorant of the rules and made a mistake during the game."
ignorant,"showing a lack of knowledge or understanding","She was ignorant of the fact that her friend was upset."
imitate,"to copy someone’s actions or behavior","The little boy liked to imitate his dad when he was working on the car."
imitate,"to pretend to be like someone or something","She tried to imitate the way her teacher spoke during class."
immediate,"happening right away, without delay","The teacher gave immediate feedback to the student after the test."
immediate,"happening instantly, right at that moment","She felt an immediate connection with her new friend."
immediately,"right away, without any delay","When the bell rings, we will immediately go to our next class."
immediately,"right after something happens, quickly","He was immediately sorry for what he had said to his friend."
immerse,"to put something into a liquid, completely cover it","You need to immerse the fabric in water to soak it."
immerse,"to deeply involve yourself in something or focus on it","She immersed herself in her book and didn’t notice the time pass."
impudent,"rude or disrespectful in behavior","The impudent child yelled at the teacher when she asked him to be quiet."
impudent,"acting without respect, especially towards authority","His impudent attitude got him into trouble with the principal."
in between,"the space or time between two things","She stood in between her two best friends during the photo."
in between,"in the middle of two things","The book was placed in between the two vases on the shelf."
in fact,"used to emphasize something that is true or real","In fact, she is the best dancer in the class."
in fact,"actually or truly, in reality","The story was not just a rumour, in fact, it was true."
in front,"located ahead of or facing you","The car parked in front of my house last night."
in front,"the part of something that faces forward","I stood in front of the class to present my project."
inaudible,"so quiet that it can't be heard","Her whisper was inaudible, and no one could understand what she said."
inaudible,"too soft or quiet to hear clearly","The sound of the wind was inaudible from inside the house."
inaugural,"the first event or occurrence of something","The inaugural concert was a huge success, with many people attending."
inaugural,"related to the first in a series of events","The inaugural flight of the new airplane was celebrated by the airline."
inaugurate,"to officially start something new","The mayor will inaugurate the new park with a ceremony."
inaugurate,"to begin or introduce something important","They will inaugurate the new school year with a special assembly."
incision,"a cut made in the surface of something, especially in the skin","The surgeon made a small incision to remove the tumour."
incision,"a surgical cut or wound","The doctor made an incision to help treat the injury."
inconspicuous,"not easily seen or noticed, blending in with surroundings","The thief tried to remain inconspicuous as he walked through the store."
inconspicuous,"not attracting attention or obvious to others","Her inconspicuous outfit made her blend in with the crowd."
individual,"a single person or thing, separate from others","Each individual is unique in their own way."
individual,"a person, especially one who is considered separately from a group","He is an individual who loves to solve problems on his own."
inedible,"not safe to eat or taste","The fruit was rotten and inedible, so we had to throw it away."
inedible,"not able to be eaten, often because it is spoiled or toxic","The mushroom was inedible, so I didn't even touch it."
inferior,"not as good as something else, lower in quality","The shoes I bought were inferior to the ones I had before."
inferior,"lower in rank or quality compared to something else","The inferior quality of the food led to complaints."
influence,"the ability to change or affect something or someone","Her words had a big influence on the way I think."
influence,"to have an effect on someone or something","Parents often influence their children’s choices and decisions."
inhabit,"to live in a place or area","Lions inhabit the grasslands and savannas of Africa."
inhabit,"to dwell or live in a specific location","Many species of birds inhabit the forest during the summer."
inhabitants,"the people or animals that live in a place","The inhabitants of the village all knew each other well."
inhabitants,"the creatures or people that live in an area","The forest’s inhabitants include various animals like foxes and deer."
innocuous,"not harmful or dangerous","The insect was innocuous and harmless, so I let it crawl on my hand."
innocuous,"harmless or not likely to cause any damage","The comment he made was innocuous and didn’t offend anyone."
insane,"not sane, mentally ill or crazy","The idea of flying to the moon without any protection seemed insane."
insane,"extremely unreasonable or crazy","It was insane to think we could finish the project in one hour."
insert,"to put something into a space or place","He inserted the key into the lock and turned it."
insert,"to add or place something into another thing","She will insert the data into the computer for the report."
insolent,"rude and disrespectful","His insolent behaviour made the teacher very angry."
insolent,"showing a lack of respect or rudeness","The insolent student ignored the teacher’s instructions."
inspire,"to give someone the desire or confidence to do something","Her speech inspired me to start learning to play the piano."
inspire,"to encourage someone to take action or be creative","The artist’s work inspired many people to try painting."
intangible,"something that cannot be touched or seen but can be felt","The feeling of love is intangible, but everyone knows when it’s present."
intangible,"unable to be touched or physically measured","The idea of freedom is intangible, but it’s very important to people."
intense,"extremely strong or powerful","The intense heat from the sun made the sand too hot to walk on."
intense,"very strong or extreme in feeling or experience","The intense workout left her feeling exhausted."
word,definition,sentence
intention,"a plan or goal to do something","Her intention was to become a doctor to help people."
intention,"what someone plans or wants to do","His intention was to finish the homework before going outside."
interested,"showing curiosity or concern about something","She was interested in learning how to play the guitar."
interested,"having a strong liking or desire to know about something","He was interested in space and always read books about planets."
interfere,"to get involved in a situation where you’re not needed","Please don’t interfere with my work; I need to focus."
interfere,"to interrupt or disturb someone or something","The dog will often interfere when you’re trying to study."
interior,"the inside part of something","The interior of the house was decorated in bright colours."
interior,"the inside space of a building or object","We looked at the interior of the car to see how much space it had."
interpret,"to explain or understand the meaning of something","She helped me interpret the poem, so I understood it better."
interpret,"to translate or explain something clearly","Can you interpret these instructions for me? I don’t understand them."
interrogate,"to ask someone a lot of questions, often in an official way","The police will interrogate the suspect to find out what happened."
interrogate,"to question someone thoroughly and persistently","The teacher had to interrogate the students to find out who was responsible."
interrupt,"to stop someone from speaking or doing something","He interrupted the conversation to tell everyone the news."
interrupt,"to disturb or break in during a conversation","I was talking when my brother interrupted and started speaking loudly."
invalid,"something that is not correct, not accepted, or not allowed","The ticket was invalid because it was expired."
invalid,"not legally or officially acceptable","He was told the document was invalid and needed to be corrected."
isolation,"the state of being alone or separated from others","She felt a sense of isolation when she moved to a new city."
isolation,"being separated from others for a time","The country went into isolation during the war to protect itself."
justice,"fair treatment based on what is right","The judge made sure that justice was served in the court case."
justice,"the quality of being fair and just to everyone","The teacher promised to give justice to both students in the argument."
labour,"work, especially hard physical work","Farmers do a lot of labour in the fields to grow food."
labour,"to do hard physical work","He laboured all day to finish his project before the deadline."
lament,"to express sadness or grief about something","She lamented the loss of her childhood pet."
lament,"to feel or express sorrow for something lost or gone","They lamented the end of their favourite TV show."
language,"a system of communication using words or symbols","Spanish is a beautiful language that many people speak."
language,"the words, sounds, and gestures used for communication","He is learning a new language to talk to his family members."
latter,"referring to the second of two things mentioned","I would prefer the latter option because it looks more fun."
latter,"the second one mentioned, compared to the first","Of the two books, I enjoyed the latter one more."
lavish,"extravagant, rich, or luxurious","They had a lavish party with expensive decorations and food."
lavish,"giving or using more than necessary, often in a showy way","The hotel room was lavish, with a giant bed and fancy furniture."
lean,"to bend or incline towards something","She leaned against the wall while waiting for her friends."
lean,"having little or no fat on the body","The athlete had a lean body from all the training and exercise."
leisure,"time when you are not working or busy, free time","On weekends, she enjoys spending her leisure time reading books."
leisure,"time spent relaxing and enjoying activities you like","He went to the park during his leisure time to play soccer."
lenient,"not strict, being kind or forgiving","The teacher was lenient with the students who were late to class."
lenient,"allowing some freedom or being less harsh","The coach was lenient and gave the players a few extra minutes to warm up."
liable,"likely to do something, especially something bad or wrong","She’s liable to be upset if you don’t include her in the game."
liable,"responsible or accountable for something","He is liable for paying for the damages caused by the accident."
liberal,"open to new ideas and changes, not strict","He has a liberal view on how people should be treated equally."
liberal,"willing to give more freedom and opportunities to others","The liberal policies in the country helped improve education and healthcare."
liberty,"the state of being free to do what you want","In the country, people enjoy liberty and have the freedom to speak their minds."
liberty,"freedom from control or restriction by others","The statue of liberty stands as a symbol of freedom."
library,"a place where books are kept and borrowed","I went to the library to find a book for my school project."
library,"a building where you can borrow books and study","The library is open every day except for Sunday."
lightning,"a flash of light caused by electricity in the sky","We watched the lightning strike the tree during the thunderstorm."
lightning,"a sudden flash of light in the sky during a storm","The lightning lit up the sky, making everything visible for a moment."
limb,"an arm or a leg of the body","He broke his limb while playing soccer, but it healed quickly."
limb,"a part of the body used for movement, like an arm or leg","The monkey swung from limb to limb in the tree."
limit,"a point beyond which something cannot go","There is a speed limit of 30 mph on this road."
limit,"the greatest amount or number allowed or possible","We have a limit of five items in the basket to checkout."
linger,"to stay longer than necessary or expected","She decided to linger after the meeting to chat with her friends."
linger,"to delay leaving a place, especially because you want to stay longer","He lingered in the park because he liked the peaceful atmosphere."
lodge,"a small house or shelter, especially in the mountains","We stayed in a lodge during our ski trip."
lodge,"to stay temporarily in a place, like a hotel or cabin","They will lodge in a hotel until they find a new home."
lofty,"high or elevated in position, height, or status","The lofty mountain peaks were covered in snow."
lofty,"having grand or impressive ideas or ambitions","He had lofty goals to become a scientist and change the world."
loneliness,"the feeling of being alone or not having anyone to talk to","She felt a deep sense of loneliness when her friends moved away."
loneliness,"a feeling of sadness because of being alone","He experienced loneliness when he had to leave his hometown."
loyal,"faithful or true to someone or something","The loyal dog always stayed by his owner’s side."
loyal,"always supporting someone or something","She was loyal to her best friend and never let anyone come between them."
majestic,"grand and impressive in appearance","The majestic castle stood tall on the hill, overlooking the town."
majestic,"having a grand or royal quality","The majestic eagle flew high in the sky, soaring above the mountains."
malady,"a sickness or disease","The flu is a common malady that affects many people in winter."
malady,"a problem or difficulty, especially with health","The doctor helped treat his malady and he soon felt better."
word,definition,sentence
margin,"the space between the edge of a page and the text","Make sure to leave a margin around your drawing so it doesn’t touch the edges."
margin,"an amount of space or difference","The margin of victory in the race was only a few seconds."
mariner,"a person who works on a ship","The mariner sailed across the ocean to explore new lands."
mariner,"someone who works or navigates a ship","The mariner taught the crew how to steer the ship during storms."
matte,"a surface that is not shiny or glossy","The photo has a matte finish, so it doesn’t reflect light."
matte,"a type of finish that is not shiny or glossy","I prefer the matte version of the painting because it looks more natural."
maximum,"the greatest or highest amount possible","The maximum score you can get on the test is 100."
maximum,"the largest or most that is allowed","The speed limit on this road is 70 mph, which is the maximum allowed."
meagre,"small in quantity or quality","He was only given a meagre amount of food for the day."
meagre,"insufficient or lacking in amount or quality","They lived on a meagre diet during the winter months."
meant,"intended or planned to do something","The teacher meant to give us homework, but forgot."
meant,"the intended or planned purpose","The toy was meant to be a gift for her birthday."
merchant,"a person who buys and sells things as a business","The merchant sold fruits and vegetables at the market."
merchant,"someone who buys and sells goods","The merchant traded spices with people from other countries."
mercy,"kindness or forgiveness shown to someone","The king showed mercy to the prisoners and let them go free."
mercy,"showing kindness when you have the power to punish","He begged for mercy, hoping the teacher would not give him detention."
mere,"nothing more than, just","It was a mere mistake that didn’t hurt anyone."
mere,"small, insignificant or only","It was a mere scratch on the car, nothing to worry about."
meticulous,"showing great attention to detail, careful","She was meticulous about cleaning every corner of the house."
meticulous,"very careful and precise about small details","He made meticulous plans for the event to ensure everything went well."
minimum,"the least or smallest amount","The minimum number of people needed to play the game is two."
minimum,"the lowest or smallest possible amount","You must have a minimum of $10 to buy the ticket."
moderate,"not too much or too little, just enough","He gave a moderate amount of effort during practice, so he wasn’t too tired."
moderate,"having a middle amount, not extreme","She prefers a moderate temperature for the room, not too hot or too cold."
modest,"not showing too much pride or boastfulness","He is modest about his achievements and doesn’t brag."
modest,"humble or simple in style","She wore a modest dress to the party that wasn’t too fancy."
moral,"having to do with what is right or wrong","The story has a moral lesson about kindness and helping others."
moral,"teaching right from wrong, especially in behaviour","He learned a moral lesson from the book about being honest."
mortal,"able to die, not immortal","Humans are mortal and cannot live forever."
mortal,"of or relating to humans or their death","The mortal danger of climbing without safety gear is real."
mysterious,"something that is difficult to understand or explain","The old house has a mysterious atmosphere because it’s so quiet and dark."
mysterious,"something that is unknown or puzzling","There was a mysterious noise coming from the attic."
nauseous,"feeling like you want to vomit","I felt nauseous after the ride because it was too fast."
nauseous,"feeling sick or uncomfortable in the stomach","The smell of the garbage made her feel nauseous."
neat,"clean, tidy, or organized","Her room is always neat and organized, with everything in its place."
neat,"arranged in a tidy and orderly way","His handwriting is very neat, and it’s easy to read."
necessary,"something that is needed or required","It is necessary to wear a helmet when riding a bike."
necessary,"required or essential for something","It’s necessary to have a passport for international travel."
nimble,"quick and light in movement or action","The nimble cat jumped easily from one fence to another."
nimble,"able to move quickly and easily","The nimble dancer spun across the stage without missing a step."
no one,"not a single person","No one showed up to the party, so we played games alone."
no one,"no person at all","No one knew the answer to the tricky riddle."
noted,"well-known or famous","He is a noted scientist in the field of biology."
noted,"important or well-known for something","She is a noted artist who has won many awards."
nuisance,"something that causes trouble or annoyance","The loud music was a nuisance to the neighbours."
nuisance,"a person or thing causing inconvenience or annoyance","The mosquitoes were a real nuisance during our camping trip."
nurseryman,"a person who grows and sells plants","The nurseryman helped us pick out the best flowers for our garden."
nurseryman,"someone who works with plants and gardens","The nurseryman taught me how to take care of the new plants."
oath,"a serious promise or vow to do something","He made an oath to always tell the truth."
oath,"a formal promise, especially one sworn to keep a commitment","The soldier took an oath to protect the country."
object,"a thing that you can see or touch, but not a living thing","The toy is an object I play with every day."
object,"a thing or item that has a purpose","She picked up the object from the table and held it carefully."
objection,"a reason or statement for disagreeing with something","He raised an objection to the proposal, saying it wasn’t fair."
objection,"an expression of disagreement or disapproval","She had an objection to the rules of the game and spoke up."
word,definition,sentence
oblige,"to do something for someone because it is necessary or required","I will oblige and help you with your homework since you asked kindly."
oblige,"to make someone do something because of a rule or law","The teacher will oblige us to follow the classroom rules."
obscure,"to make something difficult to see or understand","The fog obscured the view of the mountains."
obscure,"not well known or hard to understand","The meaning of the poem was obscure, so we had to read it several times."
obstinate,"stubborn, refusing to change your mind or behaviour","The obstinate child refused to eat vegetables, even though they were healthy."
obstinate,"being very determined and difficult to change","The obstinate dog refused to leave the yard, no matter how much we called."
occupy,"to fill or take up space or time","The book will occupy your time while you're waiting for the bus."
occupy,"to live in or use a place or space","He occupies the seat near the window every day on the bus."
occur,"to happen or take place","The accident occurred during the rainstorm."
occur,"to come to mind or be thought of","The idea for the game suddenly occurred to me."
odour,"a smell, especially a bad one","The odour of rotten food filled the kitchen."
odour,"a scent or smell","She noticed the pleasant odour of fresh flowers in the garden."
offend,"to make someone feel upset or hurt because of your actions or words","He didn’t mean to offend anyone, but his joke upset a few people."
offend,"to upset someone or break a rule","It was rude to offend the teacher by talking during class."
omen,"a sign or feeling that something will happen in the future","The black cat crossing the street is often considered an omen of bad luck."
omen,"a sign of something that may happen later","The dark clouds were an omen of the upcoming storm."
opportunity,"a chance to do something","She had the opportunity to travel to another country for work."
opportunity,"a good chance for success or progress","This is an opportunity for you to improve your skills."
oppose,"to disagree with or try to stop something","I oppose the idea of skipping school tomorrow."
oppose,"to fight against something or someone","They will oppose the plan if it’s unfair."
oppress,"to treat someone unfairly or cruelly","The government used their power to oppress the people."
oppress,"to keep someone down or prevent their freedom","The workers felt oppressed because they had to work long hours without rest."
option,"a choice or alternative","You have the option to choose your favourite dessert after dinner."
option,"a thing that you can choose from","There were many options to choose from at the buffet."
ordeal,"a difficult or painful experience","The long hike in the heat was an ordeal, but we made it to the top."
ordeal,"a tough or challenging experience","The ordeal of waiting for the test results made her anxious."
origin,"the beginning or start of something","The origin of the tradition goes back hundreds of years."
origin,"where something comes from or starts","The origin of the word ‘computer’ comes from Latin."
orthodontist,"a dentist who fixes crooked teeth","The orthodontist put braces on my teeth to straighten them."
orthodontist,"a specialist who takes care of teeth and jaws","I have an appointment with the orthodontist to adjust my braces."
ostentatious,"showing off in a way that tries to impress others","Her ostentatious dress had sparkles and was much too fancy for the occasion."
ostentatious,"trying to attract attention with fancy things","He wore an ostentatious watch that everyone noticed."
paid,"to give money for something or for work","She was paid for her work as a babysitter."
paid,"having received money for something","I received a paid holiday for my hard work at the company."
painstaking,"showing a lot of care and effort","He completed the painstaking puzzle, putting each piece in place carefully."
painstaking,"done with great attention to detail","The artist did painstaking work on the painting to make it perfect."
palaeontologist,"a scientist who studies fossils and ancient life","The palaeontologist discovered a new dinosaur fossil in the desert."
palaeontologist,"a person who looks for and studies old remains of plants and animals","The palaeontologist studied the bones of ancient animals to learn more about them."
parallel,"lines or things that run in the same direction and never meet","The two roads run parallel to each other, side by side."
parallel,"similar or happening at the same time","Her situation is parallel to mine because we both are starting new schools."
Parliament,"a group of people who make laws for the country","The Prime Minister spoke in Parliament about new rules."
Parliament,"the group of elected leaders who help make decisions in a country","The new law was passed by Parliament after much discussion."
passive,"not active, allowing things to happen without taking action","He was passive in the argument, just letting others speak."
passive,"not participating or doing things yourself","The cat took a passive role in the game and watched the others play."
pasture,"land covered with grass where animals, especially cows, can eat","The cows were grazing in the pasture all afternoon."
pasture,"an area of land for grazing animals","The sheep were happy in the large pasture near the barn."
peak,"the highest point of something","The climbers reached the peak of the mountain after hours of effort."
peak,"the top or highest part of something","We finally reached the peak of the hill and saw the beautiful view."
peculiar,"strange or unusual","The peculiar noise from the attic made me curious."
peculiar,"different from what is normal or expected","Her peculiar behaviour surprised everyone at the party."
perceive,"to see, hear, or become aware of something","I perceive that you are upset, is something wrong?"
perceive,"to think or understand something in a certain way","He perceived the situation as a chance to improve."
peril,"great danger","The hikers were in peril when the storm arrived unexpectedly."
peril,"something that could cause harm or danger","Swimming in the ocean without a lifejacket is a peril to your safety."
perilous,"full of danger","The perilous journey through the jungle was dangerous but exciting."
perilous,"dangerous or risky","Climbing the cliff without proper equipment is perilous."
perish,"to die or be destroyed","Many plants will perish if they do not get enough water."
perish,"to stop existing or living","If the fire isn’t put out, the forest could perish."
permit,"to allow or give permission for something","My parents permit me to go to the movies on weekends."
permit,"to give official permission to do something","The park permits visitors to bring picnic food."
perplexed,"confused or unsure","He was perplexed by the complicated puzzle and didn’t know where to start."
perplexed,"feeling unsure or confused about something","The perplexed student couldn’t figure out the answer to the math problem."
persuade,"to convince someone to believe or do something","She tried to persuade her friend to join her in the game."
persuade,"to convince or encourage someone to do something","I persuaded my brother to try the new ice cream flavour."
word,definition,sentence
physical,"related to the body or things you can touch","Physical activities like running and swimming help keep you healthy."
physical,"something you can feel, touch, or see","The physical challenge of climbing the mountain was tough, but exciting."
physiotherapy,"treatment to help you recover from injuries or health problems","After breaking his leg, he needed physiotherapy to help him walk again."
physiotherapy,"therapy that helps people recover movement and strength after injury","She had physiotherapy to heal her sprained ankle."
pigment,"a colour or substance used to colour something","The artist used blue pigment to paint the sky."
pigment,"a material that gives things their colour","The pigment in the flower made it bright yellow."
pioneer,"someone who is the first to do something or explore something","The pioneer explored unknown lands and mapped them for others."
pioneer,"a person who starts something new or leads the way","She was a pioneer in the world of science, discovering new things."
placid,"calm and peaceful","The placid lake looked beautiful in the early morning light."
placid,"calm and not excited or disturbed","His placid attitude made him great at solving problems without getting stressed."
pledge,"a promise or commitment to do something","He made a pledge to help clean up the park every Saturday."
pledge,"to promise or agree to do something","She pledged to always be honest and kind to others."
plume,"a feather, often a large one","The bird had a beautiful, colourful plume on its head."
plume,"a long, soft feather, often worn as decoration","The hat had a bright feather plume that stood out."
plunder,"to steal things, especially in a violent or forceful way","Pirates plundered the ships and took all the treasure."
plunder,"to take things by force, usually during a fight or war","The village was plundered by the invaders who took everything they could."
plunge,"to jump or fall into something, often quickly or suddenly","He took a deep breath before he decided to plunge into the cold water."
plunge,"to fall or dive quickly into something","The diver plunged into the pool from the high platform."
polarity,"the difference or opposites of something, such as north and south poles","The Earth’s magnetic poles have a strong polarity."
polarity,"the state of having two opposite parts or forces","The polarity of the two magnets made them push away from each other."
pompous,"being overly proud or showing off, often in a way that’s annoying","His pompous attitude made him seem like he was better than everyone else."
pompous,"acting in a way that is self-important and exaggerated","The pompous speaker thought he was the smartest person in the room."
poultry,"chickens, ducks, or other birds raised for food","The farmer raised poultry like chickens and turkeys."
poultry,"birds that are raised for meat or eggs","We eat poultry such as chicken and turkey at Thanksgiving."
precarious,"dangerous because it’s unstable or not safe","The precarious rock ledge nearly made us lose our balance."
precarious,"risky or not secure","The precarious bridge swayed in the wind and looked like it might fall."
prejudice,"having a negative opinion of someone or something without knowing them well","It’s wrong to have prejudice against people from different countries."
prejudice,"an unfair or biased opinion about someone or something","His prejudice against certain foods made him refuse to try new things."
present,"to give or show something to someone","I will present my project to the class tomorrow."
present,"a gift or something you give to someone","She gave her friend a present for her birthday."
privilege,"a special right or benefit that some people have","Having a library card is a privilege because not everyone can get one."
privilege,"an advantage or honour that is given to some people","It’s a privilege to visit a museum for free."
probably,"used to show that something is likely to happen or be true","She will probably come to the party later."
probably,"likely, but not certain","We will probably go to the park if it doesn’t rain."
proclaim,"to say something in a public or official way","He proclaimed that they had won the competition."
proclaim,"to announce or declare something loudly","The king proclaimed that a celebration would take place in the city."
procure,"to get something, especially with effort or skill","She managed to procure tickets to the concert after weeks of trying."
procure,"to find and obtain something you need or want","He procured the supplies for the party after shopping all day."
profession,"a job or career that requires special training or skills","Her profession is teaching because she loves working with children."
profession,"a job that requires special education or training","Being a doctor is a profession that requires years of study."
profit,"the money you make after all your costs are subtracted","The company made a huge profit after selling all the products."
profit,"the money earned from something you sell or do","They made a profit from the lemonade stand after buying supplies."
programme,"a plan or list of events or activities","We received a programme for the concert that showed the schedule."
programme,"a set of activities or shows for a particular purpose","The school is offering a new programme to teach kids about art."
prohibit,"to stop or not allow something","The rules prohibit running in the hallway at school."
prohibit,"to make something illegal or not allowed","The law prohibits smoking in public places."
prominent,"important or well-known","The prominent scientist received an award for her discoveries."
prominent,"standing out or easily seen","His prominent nose made him easy to recognise from a distance."
promote,"to support or encourage something to grow","The teacher will promote good behaviour in the classroom."
promote,"to help something become better or more successful","She worked hard to promote her new book."
prompt,"to encourage someone to do something","The teacher prompted the student to answer the question."
prompt,"something that helps you remember or do something quickly","The prompt on the screen reminded me to finish my homework."
pronunciation,"the way in which a word is spoken","The correct pronunciation of her name is important."
pronunciation,"how you say a word correctly","He worked hard on his pronunciation of the difficult word."
proportion,"the relationship in size or amount between two things","The proportion of milk to sugar in the recipe is 2:1."
proportion,"the size or amount of one part compared to another","The proportions of the cake were perfect for the party."
prosperous,"having success, especially in business or money","The family became prosperous after their bakery became very popular."
prosperous,"doing well or having a lot of money or success","The town grew prosperous as more businesses opened."
provoke,"to make someone angry or upset on purpose","He tried to provoke his sister by taking her toy."
provoke,"to make someone react strongly or get upset","The teacher warned him not to provoke the other students."
public,"for everyone to use or know about","The park is open to the public, so anyone can visit."
public,"something that is shared by many people","The library is a public space where people can borrow books."
punctual,"being on time, not late","It’s important to be punctual for school to avoid missing anything."
punctual,"always arriving or doing something on time","He is always punctual when meeting his friends after school."
puncture,"a small hole made by something sharp","I got a puncture in my tyre when I stepped on a nail."
puncture,"to make a small hole in something","Be careful with that needle, it might puncture your skin."
purpose,"the reason for doing something","The purpose of the game is to have fun and learn new things."
purpose,"the reason something exists or is done","The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the project."
quaint,"charming or unusual in an old-fashioned way","The quaint village looked like it came out of a fairy tale."
quaint,"old-fashioned and interesting","She lived in a quaint little house by the lake."
word,definition,sentence
queue,"a line of people or things waiting for something","We had to stand in a queue for hours to get tickets for the concert."
queue,"a group of people waiting for something","There was a long queue outside the ice cream shop."
quiet,"not making much noise","Please be quiet while the teacher is speaking."
quiet,"calm and peaceful","The park was very quiet in the early morning."
quite,"to a certain degree or extent","The book was quite interesting, but a little long."
quite,"very, but not completely","It’s quite cold today, but not freezing."
quiver,"to shake or tremble slightly","The leaves on the tree began to quiver in the wind."
quiver,"to shake or move with slight motions","She could feel her hands quiver with excitement before her performance."
raiment,"clothing or apparel","The princess wore beautiful raiment to the ball."
raiment,"fancy or elegant clothes","She loved wearing colourful raiment to the royal events."
ramble,"to walk in a relaxed, aimless way","We decided to ramble through the forest and enjoy the scenery."
ramble,"to talk on and on without a clear direction","He tended to ramble on about his favourite TV shows."
rank,"a position or level in a list or organisation","He was at the top rank in the swimming competition."
rank,"a level or position in a group or organisation","The general held a high rank in the military."
rare,"not common, unusual","It’s rare to see a rainbow, but it happens sometimes after a rainstorm."
rare,"cooked lightly, with the inside still red","He likes his steak cooked rare, with the inside pink and juicy."
really,"used to emphasise something or show that it’s true","I really like chocolate cake!"
really,"used to stress the truth of something","She is really good at drawing pictures."
receive,"to get or accept something given to you","I can’t wait to receive my birthday presents."
receive,"to accept or take something from someone","She will receive the award for her hard work."
recite,"to say something aloud from memory","She had to recite the poem in front of the class."
recite,"to repeat something, like a poem or story, from memory","The teacher asked the students to recite their favourite nursery rhyme."
refuse,"to say no or not accept something","He refused to eat his vegetables because he didn’t like them."
refuse,"to not accept or agree to something","She refused to go to the party because she was feeling tired."
release,"to allow something to go or move freely","The bird was released back into the wild after being cared for."
release,"to set something free or allow it to leave","She will release the balloon into the sky."
repent,"to feel sorry and change your behaviour","He repented for his actions and promised to be kinder."
repent,"to feel bad about something you did and try to make up for it","She repented after arguing with her friend and apologised."
reprimand,"to tell someone off for doing something wrong","The teacher reprimanded the student for talking during the lesson."
reprimand,"to scold someone for doing something wrong","He received a reprimand for being late to class."
reserve,"to keep something for later or not use it yet","You should reserve some of your energy for the race tomorrow."
reserve,"to set something aside for someone or something","They reserved seats at the restaurant for their family."
reside,"to live in a place","She resides in a small town by the coast."
reside,"to live somewhere as your home","He resides in a large house in the countryside."
residence,"a place where someone lives","Their residence is a large house in the city."
residence,"the place where you live","His residence is a lovely apartment near the park."
resign,"to quit a job or position","She decided to resign from her job to start a new adventure."
resign,"to leave your job or position willingly","The teacher decided to resign after many years of teaching."
resolve,"to make a firm decision to do something","I resolve to be more organised this year."
resolve,"to find a solution to a problem","They worked together to resolve the issue with the computer."
resort,"a place where people go to relax or have fun","They went to a beach resort for their summer vacation."
resort,"to go to a place for a specific purpose, like a holiday or break","They decided to resort to their favourite park after a busy week."
restaurant,"a place where you can buy and eat food","We went to a restaurant to celebrate my birthday."
restaurant,"a place to eat food that is prepared by others","The family went to their favourite restaurant for dinner."
restore,"to bring something back to its original condition","The museum is working hard to restore the old paintings."
restore,"to bring something back or fix it","The old house was restored to its former glory."
restrain,"to hold back or stop someone or something","He had to restrain his excitement when he saw the surprise."
restrain,"to limit or control something or someone","She had to restrain her dog from running into the street."
retain,"to keep something or hold on to it","Please retain your ticket until the end of the concert."
retain,"to keep or remember something","He tried to retain all the information he learned in class."
retreat,"to go back or move away from something","The soldiers had to retreat when they realised they were outnumbered."
retreat,"to move back or withdraw from a situation","After the storm, the animals retreat to their safe places."
reveal,"to show something or make it known","She will reveal the secret to everyone at the party."
reveal,"to make something known that was hidden","The magician revealed the trick to the amazed audience."
revive,"to bring something back to life or make it healthy again","They tried to revive the plant after it had wilted."
revive,"to make someone or something feel better or stronger again","She felt revived after a good night’s sleep."
rhyme,"words that have the same ending sound","Cat and hat are a perfect rhyme."
rhyme,"a similarity in the ending sounds of words","He wrote a poem with words that rhyme."
ridiculous,"something that is silly or unreasonable","It’s ridiculous to think that a dog can drive a car!"
ridiculous,"something so strange or funny that it’s hard to believe","The idea of flying pigs is completely ridiculous."
rigid,"stiff and not flexible","The cardboard box was rigid and couldn't bend."
rigid,"fixed or not able to change","The rules are rigid, and no one can break them."
roam,"to wander or move around without a clear destination","They loved to roam around the city, exploring new places."
roam,"to move or travel around freely","The dog liked to roam the neighbourhood, sniffing all the smells."
robust,"strong and healthy","He has a robust body because he exercises regularly."
robust,"powerful or strong in something, like health or performance","The robust tree survived the harsh winds and storms."
rogue,"a person who acts in a dishonest or tricky way","The rogue pirate took all the treasure without sharing it."
rogue,"someone who does things in their own way, sometimes breaking the rules","The rogue knight decided to go on a solo adventure."
rowdy,"noisy and full of excitement or trouble","The rowdy kids made a mess during the party."
rowdy,"loud, unruly, and disruptive","The rowdy crowd cheered loudly at the sports game."
rural,"relating to the countryside, not the city","They lived in a rural area with open fields and farm animals."
rural,"having to do with farming or country life","The rural village had small houses and lots of farmland."
word,definition,sentence
sacred,"something that is very special or holy","The church is a sacred place where people go to pray."
sacred,"something that is respected and treated with care","In many cultures, the forest is seen as a sacred space."
sacrifice,"to give something up for the sake of something else","She made a sacrifice by giving up her Saturday to help her friend."
sacrifice,"to offer something valuable as a gift, often in a religious way","The ancient people would sacrifice food to the gods."
sane,"having a healthy mind and being able to think clearly","Even though he was tired, he stayed sane and made the right decision."
sane,"acting or thinking in a way that is not crazy or unreasonable","It was a sane decision to ask for help when he didn’t know the answer."
sanitary,"clean and hygienic","The hospital made sure all the rooms were sanitary and ready for patients."
sanitary,"relating to cleanliness and health","We should always wash our hands to keep things sanitary."
satin,"a type of smooth, shiny fabric","She wore a beautiful satin dress to the party."
satin,"a shiny, smooth fabric often used for special occasions","The wedding dress was made from satin, making it sparkle."
scanty,"not enough, small in amount or size","The scanty amount of food left wasn’t enough for everyone."
scanty,"small or limited in quantity","She had scanty information about the new school rules."
score,"a number of points in a game or test","He scored the most points in the game and won."
score,"to win a certain number of points in a game","She scored five goals in the match and was the star player."
scripture,"a holy or religious book","The Bible is a scripture that is read in many churches."
scripture,"written sacred texts, usually referring to religious books","Muslims read the Quran, which is their holy scripture."
secure,"safe and protected from harm","She felt secure in her house, knowing the doors were locked."
secure,"to make something safe or free from risk","They tried to secure the building before the storm hit."
seize,"to take hold of something quickly","He tried to seize the ball during the game, but missed."
seize,"to grab or take something forcefully or suddenly","The police seized the stolen items from the thief."
seize,"to take something by force or authority","The authorities will seize the illegal goods from the market."
seldom,"not often, rarely","He seldom visits his cousins because they live far away."
seldom,"rarely, not very often","We seldom go to the beach in winter because it’s too cold."
separate,"to make things not together, divide","We need to separate the red marbles from the blue ones."
separate,"to put things apart or make them not be together","The teacher asked the students to separate into groups."
sermon,"a speech or talk, usually religious","The priest gave a sermon about kindness and love."
sermon,"a religious speech given by a preacher or minister","The preacher’s sermon inspired everyone to be better people."
shoulder,"the part of your body between your neck and your arm","He hurt his shoulder while playing football."
shoulder,"a part of your body used to carry or hold things","She carried her heavy bag on her shoulder."
shrine,"a special place for religious worship or a memorial","The family built a shrine to remember their ancestors."
shrine,"a place of worship or remembrance for someone or something important","The shrine was decorated with flowers and candles."
shrink,"to make smaller in size or become smaller","The sweater shrank in the wash and became too small."
shrink,"to become smaller or tighter when heated or washed","The cloth will shrink after it’s washed."
signature,"a person’s name written in their own way, usually for official purposes","He signed the document with his signature."
signature,"a person’s written name, often used to show agreement or ownership","She added her signature to the contract."
sincere,"being honest and real with your feelings","He gave a sincere apology for his actions."
sincere,"showing true feelings without pretending","Her sincere smile made everyone feel happy."
sincerely,"in a genuine way, without pretending","He sincerely thanked her for all her help."
sincerely,"in a heartfelt or honest manner","She sincerely hoped that everyone would have a wonderful day."
sleek,"smooth and shiny, often in an attractive way","The car’s sleek design made it look very fast."
sleek,"having a smooth, shiny appearance, usually to look stylish or attractive","Her sleek hair looked perfect after the styling session."
slope,"a surface that is not flat, going up or down","We slid down the slope on our sleds during winter."
slope,"a hill or incline that is slanted or tilted","The ski slope was steep, but perfect for a thrilling ride."
sly,"clever in a sneaky or dishonest way","The sly fox tricked the hunter by hiding in the bushes."
sly,"deceptive and tricky, often in a clever way","He gave a sly smile after winning the game."
sober,"not drunk, clear-headed and sensible","She stayed sober at the party so she could drive home safely."
sober,"serious and thoughtful, without being silly","His tone was sober when discussing the important matter."
soldier,"a person who works in an army","The soldier marched proudly with his comrades."
soldier,"a member of the army who fights for their country","The soldier trained hard to be ready for any challenge."
sow,"to plant seeds in the ground","They decided to sow seeds in the garden to grow flowers."
sow,"to plant seeds in the earth to grow plants","In spring, we sow vegetable seeds in the garden."
special,"unusual or different from others in a good way","Her birthday was very special because she received so many gifts."
special,"something unique or important, not like others","This is a special occasion, so we should all dress up."
stern,"strict and serious in manner","The teacher gave a stern look when the students were misbehaving."
stern,"a firm and serious attitude, often to show authority","His stern warning made everyone pay attention."
stomach,"the part of your body where food goes after you eat","My stomach hurts because I ate too much chocolate."
stomach,"the organ in your body where food is digested","The stomach is where the food is broken down after you eat."
stoop,"to bend your body forward, usually because you’re tired or old","She had to stoop to pick up the coin from the ground."
stoop,"to bend down or lower your body","Don’t stoop too much, or your back will start hurting."
stout,"strong and solid, especially when talking about a person’s body","He was a stout man who could carry heavy boxes easily."
stout,"thick or strong, used for something sturdy or firm","The stout tree stood strong against the storm."
stress,"a feeling of worry or tension","She felt stress before her big exam."
stress,"to feel pressure or strain because of something happening","He started to stress out when he realised the homework was due soon."
stretched,"made longer or wider by pulling","She stretched the rubber band until it broke."
stretched,"extended or pulled to be longer or wider","The tight shirt stretched after she wore it for a while."
stubborn,"not willing to change your mind, even if someone else disagrees","The stubborn child refused to eat his vegetables."
stubborn,"holding on to your opinion or decision, even if it’s not the best","He was so stubborn that he refused to ask for help."
sturdy,"strong and able to handle pressure or weight","The sturdy chair didn’t break when I sat on it."
sturdy,"well-built and tough, not easy to break","The sturdy walls of the house protected them from the storm."
subdued,"quiet and not strong, often used to describe light or colour","The room had subdued lighting, creating a calm atmosphere."
subdued,"calm and not excited, often used to describe a person’s mood","After the news, everyone was in a subdued mood."
submissive,"ready to obey someone else without arguing","The dog was very submissive and followed its owner’s commands."
submissive,"being willing to do what others say without resistance","She was submissive to her parents and always listened to their advice."
submit,"to give something for review or approval","He decided to submit his homework to the teacher."
submit,"to hand something in for it to be checked or judged","She will submit her art project to the teacher for grading."
word,definition,sentence
subterfuge,"a trick or lie used to deceive someone","He used a subterfuge to avoid being caught skipping school."
subterfuge,"a secret plan or action to achieve something in a clever or dishonest way","She used subterfuge to hide the surprise party from her friend."
subterranean,"beneath the ground","The subterranean tunnel was used to hide from enemies."
subterranean,"underground, below the surface of the earth","They dug a subterranean room to store the treasure."
subtropical,"a type of climate that is warm but not too hot, usually near the equator","The subtropical climate makes it perfect for growing tropical fruits."
subtropical,"relating to areas that are not quite tropical but still warm, usually near the equator","Subtropical regions are home to many unique plants and animals."
successful,"achieving what you want to do, or reaching your goals","The successful student got the highest grade in the class."
successful,"being good at something or reaching your goals","After a lot of hard work, he became a successful writer."
succumb,"to give in or stop resisting, often to something bad or difficult","She did not succumb to the pressure and completed her homework."
succumb,"to give up or yield to something stronger, often used for something bad","The city succumbed to the storm’s heavy winds."
sufficient,"enough to meet the needs or requirements","The food was sufficient for the whole family."
sufficient,"having enough to complete a task or meet the needs","We have sufficient supplies to last until next week."
suggest,"to recommend something or give an idea","He suggested going to the park to play basketball."
suggest,"to offer an idea or plan for others to consider","She suggested a fun game to play during the party."
summit,"the highest point of something, like a mountain","They reached the summit of the mountain after a long climb."
summit,"the top of a mountain or hill","The summit was covered in snow and gave a beautiful view."
superfluous,"more than what is needed, unnecessary","She had a superfluous amount of candy left over from Halloween."
superfluous,"too much, not necessary or needed","He threw away the superfluous decorations that weren’t needed."
superior,"better or higher in quality or rank","She is superior in maths compared to the rest of the class."
superior,"having higher qualities or abilities than others","The superior team won the championship easily."
supposed,"something that is assumed or expected to be true","You’re supposed to finish your homework before you go out."
supposed,"meant to do something or expected to be in a certain way","He was supposed to arrive at 3, but he was late."
surprise,"to make someone feel shocked or amazed, often in a pleasant way","She planned a surprise party for her friend’s birthday."
surprise,"something unexpected that makes someone feel amazed or shocked","The surprise announcement made everyone cheer with excitement."
suspect,"to believe something is true, especially when there is no proof","I suspect he’s hiding something from us."
suspect,"to think that something may be true, especially if it is bad or strange","The teacher suspects that someone cheated on the test."
suspend,"to temporarily stop something from happening or continuing","They suspended the game because of the rain."
suspend,"to make something not happen for a short time","The teacher had to suspend the lesson until everyone was settled."
symbol,"an image or object that represents something else","A dove is a symbol of peace."
symbol,"a sign or picture that stands for something important","The heart is a symbol of love."
system,"a set of connected things working together as a whole","The school has a system for checking homework."
system,"a collection of things that work together in an organized way","The solar system has the Sun at its centre with planets revolving around it."
temperate,"a mild climate that is neither too hot nor too cold","The temperate weather makes it comfortable to walk outside."
temperate,"mild, moderate in temperature, not too hot or cold","They live in a temperate region where it never gets too cold or too hot."
tempestuous,"stormy or wild, usually used for weather or emotions","The tempestuous wind made the trees sway violently."
tempestuous,"wild, emotional, or violent in nature","Their tempestuous friendship was filled with arguments and make-ups."
temptation,"a desire to do something that might not be good for you","The temptation of candy made it hard for him to resist."
temptation,"something that makes you want to do something you know is not good","She couldn’t fight the temptation to eat all the cookies."
they,"used to refer to people or things that are not named","They were waiting for the bus at the stop."
they,"used to refer to a group of people or things","They all agreed to help her with the project."
thrust,"to push something with force","He thrust the door open to see what was inside."
thrust,"to push or shove something quickly and forcefully","She thrust the book into his hands when he arrived."
tomorrow,"the day after today","We have a test tomorrow, so I need to study."
tomorrow,"the next day after today","Tomorrow, we’re going on a school trip to the zoo."
torment,"to cause someone pain or worry","The bully tormented the younger children at school."
torment,"to make someone suffer or feel pain, often in a mental way","His torment was caused by the loud noises in the classroom."
traitor,"someone who betrays their country or group","The soldier was called a traitor after he betrayed his country."
traitor,"a person who is not loyal to a group or cause","The spy was considered a traitor for giving away secrets."
tranquil,"calm and peaceful","The tranquil lake was perfect for a relaxing day."
tranquil,"quiet and peaceful, without noise or trouble","She enjoyed a tranquil walk through the quiet forest."
tries,"efforts made to do something","She makes several tries before finally solving the puzzle."
tries,"when someone attempts or tries doing something","He tries his best every time to win the race."
trifle,"something small or unimportant","The argument was over a trifle that didn’t matter."
trifle,"a small or unimportant thing","Don’t worry about the trifle, we’ll figure out the bigger problem."
trivia,"small bits of information that might not be important","He knows a lot of fun trivia about famous movies."
trivia,"facts or details that are not very important but interesting","We played a game with trivia questions about history."
trivial,"not important or significant","The problem was trivial and didn’t need to be discussed."
trivial,"something small or unimportant, that doesn’t matter much","He ignored the trivial details and focused on the main task."
turbulent,"not calm, rough or chaotic","The turbulent waves made it hard to sail the boat."
turbulent,"wild, not peaceful, often referring to emotions or weather","The stormy sea was very turbulent."
twilight,"the time between day and night, when the sky is partly dark","We walked home during twilight, as the sun was setting."
twilight,"the period of time just after sunset and just before full night","The sky was beautiful at twilight, with soft colours spreading across it."
word,definition,sentence
tyrant,"a ruler who uses power in a cruel and unfair way","The tyrant ordered harsh punishments for anyone who disagreed with him."
tyrant,"a person who is very harsh and unfair in how they treat others","The school bully was a tyrant, bossing everyone around."
unfathomable,"something that is impossible to understand or measure","The deep ocean is unfathomable to most people because it’s so vast."
unfathomable,"too difficult to comprehend or imagine","The size of the universe is unfathomable, and we can’t truly grasp it."
uniform,"a set of clothes worn by people of the same group or organisation","The children wore their school uniforms to class."
uniform,"something that looks the same or is consistent all the time","They wore uniform clothes, all of them looking exactly the same."
union,"a group of people or organisations that work together for a common purpose","The union helped the workers get better pay and conditions."
union,"when two or more things come together to form a single whole","The union of the two countries created a new government."
unite,"to come together or combine to form a group or whole","The team decided to unite to win the competition."
unite,"to bring things or people together for a common purpose","Let’s unite and help each other out!"
unnecessary,"not needed or not important","Bringing extra food is unnecessary; we have enough already."
unnecessary,"something that is not required or is more than what’s needed","It’s unnecessary to bring an umbrella because it isn’t raining."
unorthodox,"not following the usual or traditional way of doing things","His unorthodox methods of teaching made him a popular teacher."
unorthodox,"different from the usual or accepted way of thinking or doing something","She came up with an unorthodox solution to the problem that worked very well."
unsurpassed,"better than anything else, the best","The athlete’s performance was unsurpassed by anyone in the competition."
unsurpassed,"something that has not been beaten or matched","Her cooking skills were unsurpassed in the whole town."
until,"up to the time of or before something happens","We have to wait until 3 PM for the meeting to start."
until,"before a certain event or moment in time","She waited until the last moment to submit her homework."
vacant,"something that is empty or not occupied","The house was vacant for years before anyone moved in."
vacant,"a space or place that is unoccupied or unused","The chair was vacant, so I sat in it."
vanished,"completely disappeared, no longer present","The magician made the coin vanish from his hand."
vanished,"to disappear completely without a trace","The balloon vanished as it floated up into the sky."
vapour,"tiny drops of water or another liquid that are in the air","The vapour from the boiling kettle filled the kitchen."
vapour,"a gas or mist that comes from a liquid when it heats up","Water vapour rises up into the air when you heat it."
vast,"very large in size or amount","The vast desert stretched out as far as the eye could see."
vast,"immense in size, quantity, or extent","They explored the vast ocean for hours without finding land."
vehicle,"a machine used for travelling from one place to another, like a car or bike","The vehicle broke down halfway to our destination."
vehicle,"a type of transport used to move people or things from one place to another","They travelled to the city in a large vehicle."
veil,"a piece of cloth that covers part of the face, usually worn by women","The bride wore a beautiful veil on her wedding day."
veil,"to cover or hide something from view","She veiled her face with a scarf to protect herself from the cold."
venerable,"deserving respect because of age, dignity, or character","The venerable teacher was loved by all her students."
venerable,"honoured and respected because of age or dignity","The venerable elder spoke with wisdom that impressed everyone."
ventilation,"the process of letting fresh air into a room or building","Good ventilation is important to keep the air inside the house fresh."
ventilation,"the movement of air into and out of a place to keep it healthy","The ventilation in the classroom helps keep everyone comfortable."
vessel,"a large container used for holding liquids or other things","The ship was a large vessel that carried goods across the sea."
vessel,"a ship or boat used for traveling on water","The vessel sailed across the ocean, carrying passengers and cargo."
vicarious,"experiencing something through someone else’s actions or feelings","She lived vicariously through her friend’s exciting travels."
vicarious,"to feel something indirectly, through another person’s experience","He had a vicarious thrill watching his team win the championship."
virtuous,"doing good things and following moral rules","The virtuous knight always helped those in need."
virtuous,"behaving in a way that is morally good and right","She was a virtuous person, always kind and honest to others."
volatile,"likely to change suddenly and unpredictably","The weather in the mountains is volatile, with sunny skies quickly turning to storms."
volatile,"unstable, or likely to explode or become dangerous suddenly","The volatile chemicals must be handled carefully to avoid accidents."
wasteful,"using more than what is needed, not being careful with resources","It’s wasteful to leave the lights on when no one is in the room."
wasteful,"spending or using too much without thought for the future","It’s wasteful to throw away food when it can still be eaten."
weary,"feeling tired or exhausted, especially after a lot of work","She felt weary after the long hike up the mountain."
weary,"feeling worn out or drained of energy","The weary traveller rested under a tree after a long journey."
weird,"strange or unusual, not normal","That movie was weird, with lots of strange scenes."
weird,"something that feels or looks odd or out of place","It felt weird to be the only one wearing a coat in the summer."
wholesome,"good for your health and well-being","Eating vegetables is a wholesome habit that keeps you healthy."
wholesome,"something that is healthy and good for you","They had a wholesome meal with fruits and vegetables."
wholly,"completely, entirely","The plan was wholly successful, with everything going according to plan."
wholly,"fully or entirely, without exception","She was wholly dedicated to her studies."
wither,"to become dry and die, often used for plants","The flowers began to wither after not being watered for days."
wither,"to shrink or become weaker over time","His excitement seemed to wither when he realised the truth."
worthy,"deserving of respect or praise","The brave firefighter was worthy of the highest honour."
worthy,"having qualities that make you deserving of something good","She was worthy of winning the award for her hard work."
wound,"an injury to the body, especially a cut or break in the skin","He got a wound on his knee after falling off his bike."
wound,"to hurt or injure someone physically or emotionally","The mean comment wounded her feelings deeply."
wretched,"feeling miserable, very unhappy","He felt wretched after losing the game."
wretched,"very bad, awful, or unpleasant","The wretched weather ruined our outdoor plans."
yield,"to produce or give something, like crops or results","The farm yields a lot of vegetables every season."
yield,"to give way or surrender to something or someone","She had to yield to her friend’s opinion even though she disagreed."